ANN MENDENHALL: Hey, Eric.
ANN MENDENHALL: Oh, can you hear me.
Yeah.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Good. Um, my name is you probably know when you signed in here as an admin and hop on a physician assistant and been with bright heart health for about a year now.
ANN MENDENHALL: So I'm welcome. We're glad you're here.
ANN MENDENHALL: So this is sort of an assessment, you know what, what I'll be doing is asking a bunch of questions and kind of going through your past history, you know, in terms of use of, you know, whatever medical history.
ANN MENDENHALL: Etc, etc. And certainly will be time for for questions and we'll kind of see where we'll go for for treatment for you. Okay.
Pixel 2: Am I going to be able to get any kind of a prescription today.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah. What, what is your drug of choice what you've been using
Pixel 2: I was I was, I used to use started with opiate pain pills and it was
Pixel 2: All kinds of different opiates, but I've actually been I was seeing a doctor in
Pixel 2: Santo day and I was
Pixel 2: On he was prescribing me some tax. And then what happened was I moved back to this area. I'm originally from here.
Pixel 2: Uh huh. And I haven't been able to find a doctor here so I'm kind of like in a weird Limbo. And then I went to the to like an emergency room, a couple times and they gave me a refill. And then they didn't want to do it anymore. So I'm like,
ANN MENDENHALL: Oh yeah, no.
ANN MENDENHALL: panicking, or we don't we don't want to see. I mean that the risk of relapse. After you've been on Suboxone
ANN MENDENHALL: You know, for a while is pretty high. So yeah, no, I, you know, we'll go through the whole thing and then we'll discuss the methods that you know I prescribe Suboxone
ANN MENDENHALL: Either the films or the tabs, whichever one you prefer. And usually it's kind of whichever one your, your insurance will cover some of them cover both some of them cover one some cover the other and they will substitute the generic. But yeah, definitely will do that.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay. Yeah, no, I can understand. So, so, you know, rest assured, we're gonna we're going to take you out.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, so let me get into your, your chart here.
ANN MENDENHALL: And
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: move things around just a little bit side. See this little better.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, so
ANN MENDENHALL: For starters, I like to go into kind of
ANN MENDENHALL: Your history with opiate use any, anything else you might be using. So currently, I'm
ANN MENDENHALL: Are you using any opiate pills or heroin or just a subset semi text or you're out of everything.
Pixel 2: I've done completely out of everything I've been taking the subway tax. I think it's the tablets like probably the last six months or so.
Pixel 2: Okay, and then I just like i said i i when i came moved back out here. I had maybe half of a month supply and then I ran out. I started a new job here so it's been like two days.
Pixel 2: Since I since I ran out. That's the only thing that that I have been taking or using for
Pixel 2: You know, at least eight months or so is
ANN MENDENHALL: Though, okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, let me just kind of jot that down.
ANN MENDENHALL: So you were only able to get some like at the ER here or was that back wherever you were living
Pixel 2: It was in Modesto to Modesto
ANN MENDENHALL: But desktop. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, they'll give you some for a while, but then they they kind of good, especially now with everything that's going on. They just don't want anybody to come into the ER for much of anything but coven
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, and so you said that you've been out for two days. Yeah, okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, and what kind of symptoms are you feeling now just since you've been out for two days.
Pixel 2: I just I I like
Pixel 2: I went to work yesterday because it was the first day I thought I'd be all right. But I was
Pixel 2: Just barely got through the day. And then, and then I didn't sleep really last night, and then
ANN MENDENHALL: I woke.
Pixel 2: Up. I woke up this morning and called and i just i just don't just
Pixel 2: You know, sweaty and didn't sleep and I just feel like a nauseous aches and
ANN MENDENHALL: A lot of withdrawal symptoms that sounds
Pixel 2: Like so.
Pixel 2: Much for hello
Yeah.
ANN MENDENHALL: What, what was your dose on that the semi Tex.
It was
Pixel 2: eight milligrams twice daily. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: I can do that.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, have you had in the past when you were using the pills or in. Did you ever use heroin or was it strictly just pill.
Pixel 2: Yeah, I did. I did. But it's, it's just been it's it's been a, you know, years really since
Pixel 2: I did there was a time when I
Pixel 2: When it was a when I was using that
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, I mean, most people as things have changed. You know, in medicine in terms of being able to get prescription so many people will provide a pretty high amount of opiates.
ANN MENDENHALL: For you know musculoskeletal pain or whatever. And then, you know, as we've been told us providers, not to prescribe that much anymore. You know, it's
ANN MENDENHALL: Which I think is a good thing. On the other hand, and left a lot of people hanging that, you know, had become addicted really through no intention or fault of their own, so you know it's it's it's definitely been a rough time for for a lot of people
ANN MENDENHALL: So, you know, and when I asked you questions about the use, there's no no judgment here whatsoever. I just want to do whatever I can to help you. So, but it helps me to kind of know what your history is so
ANN MENDENHALL: We can do it. Yes.
Pixel 2: I did. I used. I used to have used, you know, heroin for a number of years been probably
Pixel 2: In my late 20s AND EARLY 30s, I
Pixel 2: Definitely did
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: So, and you are 39 now so
ANN MENDENHALL: Maybe you 10 years use more or less.
Pixel 2: I would say around there. Yeah.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And
ANN MENDENHALL: Have you ever had any overdoses on. Okay, okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: We had to go to the ER for that.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah. And so the withdrawal symptoms. You're having now.
ANN MENDENHALL: So you're sweaty, you can't sleep. Are you are you feeling sort of anxious agitated.
Pixel 2: Yeah.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Any consequences of opiate use and that could be something you know like legal like DUI arrests, or it could be work related or you know relationship related
Pixel 2: I would say, you know, right now it's kind of a, it's kind of a situation where I'm like, man, I like this, you know, I called in to work today and it's like
Pixel 2: You know and like I just
Pixel 2: Did the age on Matt to still be calling into work for this kind of stuff kind of stupid. So, you know, work. It's probably work related issue right now going on.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, but
Pixel 2: It's not an issue is that it's not an issue yet.
Pixel 2: But
ANN MENDENHALL: But it could become if you keep calling it and probably
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, well that's, you know, good for you for catching that, you know, pretty quickly and realizing, okay, I need, I need some help here.
ANN MENDENHALL: And and finding
ANN MENDENHALL: So we can get you that help
ANN MENDENHALL: What do you do for work.
Pixel 2: diesel truck shops, a lot
Pixel 2: Of hard work, you know, labor's labor is kind of work so
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, exactly.
ANN MENDENHALL: And a dangerous were to if you're not feeling well, sure.
ANN MENDENHALL: How about any other substance use and that could be alcohol benzo math anything
Pixel 2: No.
Pixel 2: Really, I just, I
Pixel 2: I drank.
Pixel 2: I drank like occasionally when I was when I was younger. But then when with the with the opiates and stuff. I just, I kind of went
Pixel 2: Okay. Ever since then I just really train or anything much after that.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, and no no math or ends and asked me, it's like Xanax or Valium or anything like that.
Pixel 2: No. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: All right.
ANN MENDENHALL: What's the longest amount of time that you've been sober where you've been, you know, off opiates.
ANN MENDENHALL: Or on this side, be tax.
Pixel 2: On the on the subjects. I've been on them for
Pixel 2: Price six to eight months. And I've, I've had, I've had year like, you know, two, three years when I was clean.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Great. Have you ever gone to a treatment facility like residential treatment.
ANN MENDENHALL: Or a or in a or anything like that.
Pixel 2: Yeah, I went to. I went to meet a couple meetings before. I know, I know I have some families a brother and cousins and stuff that are go there involved in that.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay.
Pixel 2: A community. So I went with them.
Pixel 2: You know, what have you meeting.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, I think that's really helpful. I might my son is sober for oh it's been about seven years right now from alcohol and he at first.
ANN MENDENHALL: We had two meetings every day now. He doesn't go to as many, but I've gone to several with him and
ANN MENDENHALL: He has I think it's really important to have a sponsor, because then you know if something happens, like, you know, thank God you caught this before you went back to the opiates, because that could have been a real risk for relapse.
ANN MENDENHALL: So, you know, good for you for doing that. But having a sponsor you know when something comes up or, you know, I think for a lot of people right now everybody's so stressed out about what's going on with this pandemic.
ANN MENDENHALL: That having a sponsor, it can be really helpful to just kind of get you through any rough patches or periods of anxiety. So
ANN MENDENHALL: You know, that certainly is not something that we say you have to do, but I just you know personally recommend it.
ANN MENDENHALL: And going to meeting. So in, you know, and going to meetings to particularly if you just sort of moved back here actually might be a good way to meet other people that
ANN MENDENHALL: You know, you could, you know, enjoy spending time with that are also sober won't be sort of a risk factor, although it's kind of hard to spend time with anybody right now. But you know what I mean.
Pixel 2: It's true.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah. So what about
ANN MENDENHALL: past medical history, do you have any history of things like arthritis or gout or asthma or COPD or diabetes or seizures or anything like that.
ANN MENDENHALL: I don't. Okay.
Pixel 2: Yeah.
Pixel 2: I mean, though. The only thing I've like been seen like made appointments for was a migraines. I was getting migraines for a while there. So I was going to get an imitrex and but I don't really
Pixel 2: manage them up kind of figured out how to manage them over the years.
ANN MENDENHALL: Good for you. What do you do for them.
Pixel 2: It's like a
Pixel 2: Date, they pop up when I
Pixel 2: Like get set on a certain schedule sleeping, eating and then break down.
Pixel 2: You know, stay away or
Pixel 2: Eat start eating junk food weird stuff like that. You like a person who's a lot of preservatives and stuff like that.
ANN MENDENHALL: Uh huh why that's, yeah. You nailed it because I get them sometimes too and it's it's usually the sleep thing, you can certainly trigger them, but the food too. It's so important. So you're not on imitrex anymore.
ANN MENDENHALL: Already
ANN MENDENHALL: Looks
ANN MENDENHALL: Say DDT.
ANN MENDENHALL: Unchecked
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, how about any history of surgeries.
Pixel 2: No, no, I've never had any sort of
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And
ANN MENDENHALL: Family history. So is your mother living
Pixel 2: Yeah.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay. Does she have any health problems.
Pixel 2: Not really, okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Is she
ANN MENDENHALL: Does she have any history of, you know, alcohol or drug abuse.
No, okay. No.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And how about
ANN MENDENHALL: Why about your dad. Is he still living.
Pixel 2: He is here.
ANN MENDENHALL: Any health concerns for him.
Pixel 2: I really, I remember he had a
Pixel 2: Issue with high blood pressure. A few years ago, and I think he kind of got it under control, though, David. He's like 65 or something now. So it's, I mean, that's about it.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay. All right.
Pixel 2: I get blood pressure was getting up a little bit. Many
Pixel 2: I don't know, whatever he did. I mean, got it back down.
Pixel 2: Yeah.
ANN MENDENHALL: Well, kind of maybe what you did with your migraines, too, because so much things like hypertension.
ANN MENDENHALL: Relate to sort of your what they call activities of daily living diet and exercise. And so you might have changed his diet are walking more. That's the best way to deal with hypertension. So good for him. How about any siblings.
Pixel 2: A brother.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: How old is your brother.
Pixel 2: He's
Pixel 2: 3435
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay. All right, any health concerns or abuse issues.
Pixel 2: Now he's a pretty healthy
Pixel 2: Okay, yeah.
Pixel 2: He's the he's the one I was telling you about it is, and
Pixel 2: Involved in
Pixel 2: Like a community of some punch people he deals with it goes to meetings a lot. So he he does have
Pixel 2: You know he's recovering
ANN MENDENHALL: Recovering alcohol.
Heroin
ANN MENDENHALL: Heroin. Okay. All right. Yeah, but that's and he's been sober for a while.
Yeah.
ANN MENDENHALL: This
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Sorry. There's something about this family history form that doesn't let me
ANN MENDENHALL: Just have to move on.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay and moving along here, social history, meaning how do you smoke cigarettes.
Pixel 2: Yeah, I'm trying to quit back smoking up that smoked by half a bag today.
ANN MENDENHALL: Have a back. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Ready and you say you don't drink or
ANN MENDENHALL: Not okay and and so do you eat healthy meals get exercise.
Pixel 2: Yeah, I usually do, but then I have a, I have periods where a while, you know, I'm kind of
Pixel 2: eating fat eating faster and, you know, but then I've always kind of try to come back to that.
Pixel 2: And get any better. Yeah. Some I tried to do
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah. None of us are perfect with that.
ANN MENDENHALL: It's just doing the best best we can.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And, you know, and I didn't ask you, I was asking you about other substances. Do you smoke marijuana or vapor anything
ANN MENDENHALL: No. Okay.
Pixel 2: I mean, I have, I wouldn't say that I'm a, like a that's something I do
Pixel 2: I can
ANN MENDENHALL: Just occasional yeah
ANN MENDENHALL: And now this is kind of
ANN MENDENHALL: More or less head to toe things whoops want that.
ANN MENDENHALL: So do you have
ANN MENDENHALL: Any. This is kind of things that are happening to like right now. It's called review of systems. So we kind of go, you know, head to toe briefly through things that might be
ANN MENDENHALL: Symptoms you're having. So currently any fever, night sweats chills fatigue.
Pixel 2: I would say pride chills and 50
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, which is part of that withdrawal stuff. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: No fever, though.
ANN MENDENHALL: No. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: How about are you starting to get a runny nose.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah yeah
ANN MENDENHALL: So,
ANN MENDENHALL: And
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, how about a cop shortness of breath, difficulty breathing wheezing.
Pixel 2: And I can, I think, that has to do with that too. I've noticed when I like the withdrawal symptoms. I kind of, I think it raises my blood pressure a little bit or something.
Pixel 2: And I still like my chest starts feeling
Pixel 2: It's kind of
Pixel 2: Like cardiovascular something's going on you know what
Pixel 2: Yeah, a little easier.
ANN MENDENHALL: Well, you know the other thing that that could be too is, you know, because you're going through withdrawal, that raises your anxiety and oftentimes anxiety.
ANN MENDENHALL: Really presents in a lot of people who are starting to have a panic attack or certainly Oh for sure think they have a heart attack and it's just, that's kind of what happens. You get that chest tightness and it's uncomfortable and pretty scary, but any
ANN MENDENHALL: Palpitations,
Pixel 2: No. Okay, I don't think so.
ANN MENDENHALL: And GI you mentioned
ANN MENDENHALL: Some nausea.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah and now any vomiting, diarrhea, constipation,
Pixel 2: No, vomiting, but the other one.
ANN MENDENHALL: Diarrhea okay
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, that's pretty common.
ANN MENDENHALL: This
ANN MENDENHALL: Muscle pain back pain.
Pixel 2: Yeah.
ANN MENDENHALL: any difficulty walking
Pixel 2: I mean, just not really difficulty walking. I just weak and tired. I don't really know on
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, I'll say muscle weakness for that. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And are you currently having a headache lightheadedness, dizziness,
Pixel 2: Little, little headache. Yeah.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: No, dizziness, though.
Pixel 2: Not really.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And
ANN MENDENHALL: Would you say that you're currently experiencing anxiety and depression.
Pixel 2: Maybe
Pixel 2: Anxiety possibly
Little bit.
ANN MENDENHALL: And I know you said sleep disturbances.
ANN MENDENHALL: Do you have any suicidal ideation or thoughts of suicide.
ANN MENDENHALL: No. Okay, good.
ANN MENDENHALL: How about any hallucinations.
Pixel 2: No.
ANN MENDENHALL: I wouldn't expect that either. Okay enough of all those. And let me
ANN MENDENHALL: Just put something in here.
ANN MENDENHALL: And you have no history of any suicide attempts, either.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, and are currently are you taking any medications, other than you were taking this IV tax.
Pixel 2: That's it.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay.
Pixel 2: Just, just though.
Pixel 2: I had a by her my
Pixel 2: I hit my knee or did something at work.
Pixel 2: And it started it started swelling up kinda and I went in there and they
Pixel 2: They were like, Well, you know, we can give you a
Pixel 2: We can treat it for cellulitis. Yeah, but I think they just did that because I told them that I didn't remember exactly how I hit it.
Pixel 2: And then so they gave me the antibiotics. And then the next day. It just went away. And so I didn't really I took him took him one time, I don't think it was any kind of infection. I took him one time and it just went away. It's fine now.
Pixel 2: Yeah, it was a precautionary thing maybe right
ANN MENDENHALL: And you usually don't get silly cellulitis. Usually it takes a little longer than that, you know, and that is definitely serious and you definitely need antibiotics.
ANN MENDENHALL: For it. But yeah, they probably will being precautionary and, you know, and I would say, you know, when you are prescribed antibiotics.
ANN MENDENHALL: You know, don't stop in the middle. If you only took it once, then I don't think it's that big a deal.
ANN MENDENHALL: But if you take a half of a prescription and you stop then you risk becoming resistant to that particular medication and it won't work in the future. So, just FYI, but I don't think just taking it once and it doesn't sound like you had cellulitis to me.
Pixel 2: As what I didn't think I had
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, how about, do you have any drug allergies.
Pixel 2: No, I don't.
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: vitals and so this obviously I can't take your blood pressure, listen to your heart and lungs, but how tall are you,
Pixel 2: Almost six two. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: And how much do you weigh
Pixel 2: Probably about two to 10 to five to 10
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, I think.
Pixel 2: I'll do 10
ANN MENDENHALL: To 10 okay yeah now in the other thing that I'm going to do is take your heart rate. So can you if you try and find your carotid artery in your neck. Can you find a heartbeat there.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay. And so what I'm going to do is I'm going to have you counted, but I'm an account 321 and say start
ANN MENDENHALL: And then I'm going to be kind of counting on my own. And I'll say stop.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, and then then you tell me the number
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Three.
ANN MENDENHALL: Whoops. Let me get my watch to cooperate here. There we go. 321 start
Pixel 2: Um, I got like 1718
Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, that's good.
ANN MENDENHALL: Is good for that.
ANN MENDENHALL: Right.
ANN MENDENHALL: So you say you've only been off the the semi text for a couple of days.
Pixel 2: Right.
ANN MENDENHALL: Yeah, okay. So I think a lot of times when people have been off it for a little bit, you know, we go back down and kind of work you back up again. But if it's only been two days.
ANN MENDENHALL: And it sounds to me like that's a dose that's really working for you, doesn't make you too tired or drowsy or anything like that.
Pixel 2: No, it's
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay, all right, what would I would like to do is prescribe Suboxone which is is similar to sub you text. It's got the buprenorphine and that's usually what we prescribe here and I will send either in you've been taking the tablets.
Pixel 2: Yeah, the only thing with the Suboxone is, I don't know if my if the if the insurance. I have will cover the name brand or not.
ANN MENDENHALL: Oh, it doesn't have to be. It can be buprenorphine naloxone. In fact, I can
ANN MENDENHALL: I can specify that. And usually they will cover the tabs and then I'll write a little note to the pharmacist to please fill with whatever your insurance will cover.
ANN MENDENHALL: All right. Okay.
ANN MENDENHALL: Okay. And if you have any problems with it, call right back to the virtual
Pixel 2: Well,